american culture is now normalizing the
idea that minors can be given hormones
to prevent their biological development
of their secondary sexual
characteristics
dr levine you have supported both
allowing minors to be given hormone
blockers
to prevent them from going through
puberty as well as surgical destruction
of a minor's genitalia
like surgical mutilation hormonal
interruption of puberty can permanently
alter and prevent secondary sexual
characteristics
the american college of pediatricians
reports that 80 to 95 percent
of pre-pubertal children with gender
dysphoria will exp
experience resolution by late
adolescents if
not exposed to medical intervention and
social affirmation
dr levine do you believe that minors are
capable of making such a life-changing
decision as changing one's sex
my name is elle i am a
uh female to male to female d
transitioner i recently detransitioned
um probably like a little like a month
and a half ago
um and i've been actively
living transitioned back de-transitioned
into a woman for like two days now my
name is jack
and i am a female to male to female
detransitioner so let's be a little more
specific since you evaded the question
do you support the government
intervening to override the parent's
consent
to give a child puberty blockers
cross-sex hormones
and or amputation surgery of breast and
genitalia
you have said that you're willing to
accelerate the protocols
for street kids i'm alarmed that poor
kids with no parents
who are homeless and distraught you
would just go
through this and allow that to happen to
a minor
i would hope that you would have
compassion for kyra bell who's a 23 year
old girl
who was confused with her identity at 14
she read on the internet about something
about transsexuals she thought well
maybe that's what i am
she ended up getting these puberty
blockers cross-sex hormones she had her
breasts amputated
but here's what ultimately she says now
and this is a very insightful from
decision from someone who made a mistake
but was led to believe this was a good
thing by the medical community
i made a brash decision as a teenager as
a lot of teenagers do
trying to find confidence and happiness
except now the rest of my life will be
negatively affected she said
adding that the medicalized gender
transitioning
was a very temporary superficial fix for
a very complex
identity issue what i'm alarmed at is
that you're not willing to say
absolutely minors shouldn't be making
decisions to amputate
their breast or to amputate their
genitalia imagine
how many girls have felt uncomfortable
in their female bodies before growing
into them and becoming strong confident
women who are happy with themselves
this is how it used to be before
dysphoria was medicalized
before women were told they could become
medical professionals attributed my
dysphoria to an innate identity
the internet encouraged this my parents
didn't know how to respond
assuming the therapists and doctors
would know better than to let a
sixteen-year-old make the wrong
life-altering decisions when you go into
planned parenthood
at least for me i went in and i signed
like a little consent form they didn't
really ask me any questions and they
took
a blood draw and then i scheduled to
come back for two weeks later
after the lab results had come in and
get my prescription
that was it um so
my opinion first on all of that
um i mean it must be nice to just be
able to walk in and finally you know
just say hey i want to start hormones
now
and then just kind of kick that off um
although i will say that
i mean with the whole just giving
hormones to whoever walks in the door
i mean i don't think is necessarily a
good thing
i'm alarmed that you won't say with
certainty that minors should not have
the ability
to make the decision to take hormones
that will affect them for the rest of
their life
will you make a more firm decision on
whether or not minors should be involved
in these decisions
senator transgender medicine is a very
complex
and nuanced field and if confirmed to
the position of assistant secretary of
health
i would certainly be pleased to come to
your office and talk with you and your
staff
about the standards of care and the
complexity of this field
let it go into the record that the
witness refused to answer the question i
regret
my double mastectomy more than i regret
going on testosterone
like if i had gone on testosterone and
never had a double mastectomy i feel
like
i could almost reverse all the effects
because
you know my voice will always be deeper
and i'll always have the body hair
but at least i would have still had my
whole body
but parts of my body were cut off
and when i look at myself in the mirror
i feel mutilated
and i don't mean that to be dramatic
that's just genuinely how i feel like
when i see myself naked it's like when i
look at myself
from the you know the rib cage down like
the belly button down
i feel like i look like a woman at least
mostly but when i look at
the rest of my body you know without my
wig on and without my makeup
and when i see my chest i
i do feel like i look mutilated or like
i feel like some kind of bad science
experiment
you know people ask me like do you
regret it
yes yes i regret it i think it's the
stupidest thing i've ever done in my
life
i got very active in the trans
communities
on reddit um on twitter
and spent most of my time online that
didn't do anything
in real life at all really i i didn't
have any friends i didn't go to school
at that point so the only people i
really talked to on a daily basis were
the people that i talked to online
and that definitely didn't help
um that didn't i i just i
i was basically consumed by trans media
online so it's deeply offensive
uh to compare to general mutilation
which is uh
is not in reality of their own volition
okay they do it to very young children
uh it has no relationship to
trans folks at all who are choosing to
be
who they actually are so what rand paul
is saying is i don't really believe in
freedom
and i don't want you to follow your
beliefs i want you to follow my beliefs
my interpretation of my religion says
you shouldn't do this
so now i'm going to impose that on you
because i never believed in america
i never believed in freedom i never
believed in equality
and i most certainly did not believe in
justice so i'm going to make the
decisions for you and i'm going to
impose my religion on you
because i think saudi arabia has it
right uh we should be a theocracy
where we enforce fundamentalist religion
on everyone else
you want to make a decision to be the
your true self
rand paul hates freedom and he doesn't
want you to be
have that option and be an actual free
american that's just a fact
it's a fact i mean like when you go to
the doctor and you want to
get like a medication for something they
don't just give it to you
you know like they want to make sure
that you're taking the right thing to
help your specific needs
about a year later i started
testosterone i was 16.
i had been going to a therapist
who tried to tell me that she didn't
want me to transition
then i went to a therapist from the lgbt
center who told me
that she was ready to get me on hormones
from day one i was able to have a double
mastectomy because
i had one appointment with a therapist
who
diagnosed me with gender dysphoria
i saw him one time i believe i was 16
years old i could have been 15 but i'm
pretty sure i was 16.
i don't know we must have talked for
only like 45 minutes or something like
that
and he diagnosed me with severe
depression i still have like the
diagnosis paper severe depression severe
anxiety
and gender dysphoria and um that was a
piece of paper that allowed me to go on
testosterone
and that was a piece of paper that
allowed me to have a double mastectomy
at
19 years old 18 years old so with
planned parenthood
just kind of willy-nilly you know just
almost handing out hormones like candy
to
anybody who walks in the door you know
regardless if you're actually
transgender or not or just confused or
whatnot
um i mean i feel is almost almost
disrespectful to people who are actually
transgender
they're trained medical professionals i
mean shouldn't they be asking you more
questions and
like taking more care to give you what
you actually need
genital mutilation has been nearly
universally condemned
genital mutilation has been condemned by
the who
the united nations children's fund the
united nations population fund
he loves saying the term genital
mutilation and he loves citing like wh o
and uh un studies the general mutilation
that they're
talking about is like fgm it's it's
it is mutilating the genitals of women
so they cannot ever enjoy
intercourse at all it is horrible and he
is using it as a way to say like
i'm sorry if you have gender dysmorphia
i don't care
and i don't want to uh you know honor
the
the the way science is set up right now
medicine is set up so that we can
not shut people down and and
if they are insistent on eventually as
miners still uh trying to get that uh
you know hormone therapy
then we can they they handle it that way
i mean when you're just handing out
hormones to anybody who wants them i
mean you're bound to be
giving it to somebody who shouldn't be
taking hormones like myself or somebody
else who detransitioned
i mean the more people you just hand it
out to i mean that's just going to be
more detransitioners down the line
somebody quoted my tweet and said to any
women out there
how did you feel about your body when
you were 14 were you comfortable in it
why are we encouraging teen girls to
believe their bodies are wrong
somebody says very uncomfortable in my
own skin hated my periods wanted to be a
boy because they didn't have to go
through that every month
very happy to be a woman now hating your
period
is such a universal female experience
that is
not talked about women have been feeling
like this since the beginning of time i
feel like
i feel like teenage girls especially
like in
this generation are being told that
they can opt out of this of all of this
womanhood
of expectations of society looking a
certain way
you can just opt out by changing the way
that you identify
there are so many young teen girls right
now
who are identifying as men because
of this so many young women who
don't want attention from men who don't
want to deal with
growing into an adult woman because of
everything that you're told that means
you can just say no i'm not a woman i'm
a guy
i had the surgery well actually let me
back up i had a consultation
um and my mom drove me to have a
consultation and i probably saw
the surgeon for maybe 10 or 15 minutes
basically what happened was he walked in
my shirt was off it was extremely
uncomfortable
he touched my breast he looked at my
breasts we took photos like one facing
to the side one facing to the front
and then he was like okay we're good and
i didn't see him again i just saw the
nurses and anesthesiologists
and they rolled me back and put me under
and when i woke up my breast was gone
um and i remember waking up
and being
in extreme pain the feelings
of dysphoria were never there until i
started having sex with a woman
and i think that should have been a big
red flag
for me but i just didn't know i wasn't
aware of what
the criteria that should be meant for
someone to be considered transgender
and so when
i came out to my mom she was like well
are you sure and i was like yeah even
though
i don't think i was sure i'm really in
bed being like well am i sure
i wasn't um but i was so stubborn such a
stubborn person that
once i had decided on something like
once i decided i am trans
i was like well there's no going back
and this is what we're doing now but the
thing was like i couldn't
reach for a plate in the cabinet to feed
myself
without the pain or like it was really
hard for me to take a shower by myself
like i really needed someone to help me
and for a little while like they were
willing to help me but then after some
time
you know maybe like the first week it
kind of seemed like they were really
irritated so i had a really really
difficult time and i was out of work for
six weeks
and i could only sleep on my back
and i remember not
feeling anything i did not feel happy
about having a double mastectomy like
i don't want to say i felt sad about it
but it was more like i didn't feel
anything eventually i went back to work
but
i was still experiencing like a lot of
pain and i was having i basically went
immediately back to doing all this
physical work
because my job was basically like to
throw stuff around
and it would hurt me so
much like i would pick up these 50 pound
boxes and like throw these bags of
potatoes and stuff
and i would just be in so much pain like
there was a few times where
there was like a center island in the
middle of the grocery store where i'd be
with some of my co-workers it'd be like
trimming vegetables or something
and i would just be like keeled over on
the floor in pain
like i'm not a crier but i was like on
the verge of tears because i was like
hurting so much and my coworker was like
are you okay like what can i do like
they like didn't know what to do and i
was like i'm really sorry like i just
had reconstructive surgery like
i just need a minute and i would just be
literally huddled in a ball on a
concrete floor
at my job and i mean i think that as a
doctor or some
like people who are like trained medical
professionals i mean you should be
asking more questions instead of just
having you walk in
be like hey i'm transgender i want to
take these and then then just like here
take your prescription and get out
and he's like we got our money dr levine
gave the same answers to a barrage of
accusations and questions from senator
paul
who was widely criticized on twitter i
think he's a terribly misinformed
and ill-educated on the subject of
transgender medicine and surgery
dr sherman lease is a world renowned
transgender surgeon who operates in the
philadelphia region
he calls senator paul's comments
discriminatory those remarks have
nothing to do with with rachel levine
who's a highly qualified physician
the people who have reached out to me
especially privately
and told me about their regrets
regarding surgery whether that be
a mastectomy or any type of top surgery
or hysterectomy or basically like any
uh sex reassignment surgery or cross sex
hormones like
it made me a lot more upset than i
thought it would and not in like a
sadness type of way but like
a very angry type of way like it made me
really mad
that this has happened to other people
and doctors were just like yeah i'll
take your money and i'll take out your
organs
but i mean i mean of course hindsight
because i mean back when i wanted to
take
hormones i mean i thought planned
parenthood oh my god this is like a
godsend i mean i don't have to go
because i didn't want to talk to a
therapist um
i mean so i don't have to jump through
any hoops i don't have to do anything
um i just walked in and got it and yes
that's on me for not knowing what i
wanted to do
but i also feel like if it wasn't just
as easy as just walking in and signing a
form
for something that permanently changes
your body
for essentially the rest of your life in
some aspects
um i think like if it wouldn't have been
so easy for me to just walk in
i don't think i probably would have
transitioned because i think
the longer i would have thought about it
and given it more time to think
and con given it more consideration i
think i think it may have played
a pact or a part and may have influenced
me transitioning at all um if it just
wasn't so easy just a willy nilly on
impulse just go and decide to take
hormones
there is a currently popular catchphrase
in politics
and i'm concerned that it's going to
become a thought-terminating cliche
especially but not only on the left-wing
end of the political spectrum
the catchphrase i hear again and again
is in reference to
police reform police misconduct
police violence that we should only
listen
to the voices of african-americans
in reference to transgender people that
we should only listen to
and believe the voices of trans men
and trans women themselves
this is fundamentally incompatible
not just with the concept of
deliberative democracy
it's also fundamentally incompatible
with the concept
of research itself
in cambodia many decades ago there were
violent calamitous disastrous events
that today some people call the
cambodian genocide
some people might call it the cambodian
holocaust or the cambodian civil war the
cambodian famine
you could say a little bit more
neutrally
the cambodian revolution
do you think we should only trust
and we should only listen to the voices
of cambodians
about what happened and why
and that's an easy question because
we're talking about something happened
decades ago when i was a small child
basically
before many of you were born what about
the current
political situation in cambodia
do you think we should only ask
cambodians do you think there's some
unique value in the perspective of a
detached outsider
in evaluating what went wrong in
cambodia before
decades ago and what's going wrong
now if you want to bring about police
reform
reform to the way the police operate in
the united states canada australia
france england that is not a decision
for black people to make a loan
that is not a decision only for the
victims
of police brutality to make alone which
are obviously a
tiny minority of the black community and
also there's a tiny minority of the
white chinese
first nations american india if you just
gather together every person who had
proven in
court that they were the victim of
police brutality or police harassment
i don't know how many thousands or tens
of thousands you get but then you'd have
a very small minority
and guess what they shouldn't make the
decision they shouldn't write the
legislation either
if you actually believe in research i
know it sounds ridiculous to say but
this is a real question
do you think that research could reveal
facts
yes or no do you think that a researcher
could discover something
that a native born cambodian themselves
might not know might not appreciate
do you think a researcher can discover
something that a
transgender person might not know or
might not see the significance of
if you don't if you think research just
doesn't exist if you think it's like the
tooth fairy
that would be a very different view on
some level to some extent
everyone in this audience believes in
research you just might not have thought
through
the implications because a researcher is
not
qualified to do that research by being
cambodian
a researcher is not qualified to do that
research because they're black
they're not qualified to do the research
because they themselves are a victim of
police brutality or police misconduct
right you're qualified
to be a researcher precisely by having
the detached outsiders perspective
having the integrity the commitment to
the truth and so on
that being a researcher entails and
again i can sympathize
but obviously if you are yourself
personally the victim of police
brutality the police kicked in the door
of your house
and killed one of your children or
killed your husband or wife
nobody expects you to have the detached
perspective of a researcher
and nobody expects you to write the
legislation to come up with a new plan
for what is the best decision
not just for the police and not just for
the victims and not just for
black people but for all of us as a
society
right so there's a certain set of
beliefs
that include beliefs about
research in terms of what
deliberative democracy means not just in
its
process but in its outcomes if you
really think
it's inappropriate for a detached
outsider
to have a perspective on and to be
advocating
new laws and new policies on
the hormone replacing therapy the drugs
given to transgender people whittle me
this
do you think that only professional
athletes
should be allowed to vote on whether or
not they
get to use exogenous testosterone
steroids or other performance enhancing
drugs
do you think there's a decision to be
made there that's not just
what would be convenient for the
athletes themselves
athletes who want to win in their sport
they may want to look beautiful
not all them may be athletes some people
may be using steroids because they want
to be in pornography they want to be
models they want to be actors they want
to be in the movies
those people they may make one decision
what's good for them
right but you and i right now if you
believe in deliberative democracy if you
believe in
research there's the possibility that we
might know something
we might learn something through
investigation where we have to make a
decision
as for what's best for all of us as a
society
moving forward
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice